Mavan : 



			1 ) write mavan lif cycle : 
				and its cammands :

Validate: This step validates if the project structure is correct.
Compile: It compiles the source code, converts the .java files to .class and stores the classes in target/classes folder.
Test: It runs unit tests for the project.
Package: This step packages the compiled code in distributable format like JAR or WAR.
Integration test: It runs the integration tests for the project.
Verify: This step runs checks to verify that the project is valid and meets the quality standards.
Install: This step installs the packaged code to the local Maven repository.
Deploy: It copies the packaged code to the remote repository for sharing it with other developers.

mvn clean: Cleans the project and removes all files generated by the previous build.
mvn compile: Compiles source code of the project.
mvn test-compile: Compiles the test source code.
mvn test: Runs tests for the project.
mvn package: Creates JAR or WAR file for the project to convert it into a distributable format.
mvn install: Deploys the packaged JAR/ WAR file to the local repository.
mvn deploy: Copies the packaged JAR/ WAR file to the remote repository after compiling, running tests and building the project.

			
			2)   describe  3 lines each 

			mvn --version : it will show which version we are suing 
			mvn -- compile: It will compile the source code of the project
			mvn --test : Runs tests for the project
			mvn  -- install : deploys the packaged war file to the local repository 
			mvn --clean : cleans the project and removes all files generated by the previous build.

			3 WHAT I SWEB SERVICES ?	
			4) what is rest controler: It is spring annotation that is used to build REST api
			5 ) we services and its methods: get , post , put delete ? describe its  
get: It is used to get all the data and records from the database.
post: It is used to add new data and records to the database.
put: It is used to udate the data using id or name in the database.
delete: It is used to delete the data from the database.


			6) Git life cycle 
			7)  describ the git cammends  
				git init : It is used to start a new repository
				git add : IT is used to add the file in staging area
				git commit : this command records or snapshots the file permanently in the version history.
				git pull : This command fetches and merges changes on the remote server to your working directory.
				git push : This command sends the committed changes of master branch to your remote repository.
				git checkout : This command is used to switch from one branch to another.
				
				git checkout -b : It is used to change the branch
				git checkout -d : It is used to change the branch
				git log : It is used to see the history of the repository
				git reset : Undo local changes to the state of git repo
				git revert :used for undoing changes to a repository's commit history.
				git merge :It is used to make changes to other repository
				rebase :
			8) centrilized v/s distrubuted version conrol


Centrilized:
In centralized source control, there is a server and a client. The server is the master repository that contains all of the versions of the code. 
To work on any project, firstly user or client needs to get the code from the master repository or server.
 So the client communicates with the server and pulls all the code or current version of the code from the server to their local machine.

Cistrubuted version control:
In distributed version control most of the mechanism or model applies the same as centralized. 
The only major difference you will find here is, instead of one single repository which is the server, here every single developer or client has their own server and they will have a copy of the entire history or version of the code and all of its branches in their local server or machine.
 Basically, every client or user can work locally and disconnected which is more convenient than centralized source control and that’s why it is called distributed. 